                          Chaos Data Analyzer
            Changes from Version 1.0 (The Regular Version)
               to Version 2.0 (The Professional Version)
                       Created November 14, 1995

1. The program has been recompiled with PowerBASIC 3.2 allowing it to 
run faster but requiring DOS 3.0 or later.

2. The copyright date has been changed to 1995.

3. A problem with the computer sometimes freezing up when the keyboard 
buffer fills and the sound is active has been corrected. 

4. The maximum number of data points has been increased from 16,382 to 
32,000 (assuming adequate memory).

5. The Poincare movie now works with very small data sets.

6. It is now possible to back up with the graphics, color, and view 
commands by pressing the <Shift> key.

7. The correlation dimension program now includes a calculation of the 
false nearest neighbors in view 4, entropy in view 5, and the BDS 
statistic in view 6. 

8. Memory exhaustion is now handled more gracefully.

9. A Hurst Exponent program has been added.

10. A Wavelet Transform program has been added.

11. A Neural Network program has been added.

12. A Nonlinear Prediction program has been added.

13. The program will now write the summary screen to the disk file in 
curly brackets {} on the command line, and the summary screen has been 
reformatted to allow more data. 

14. Largest Lyapunov exponent now prints on the summary screen even 
when the value is 0.0.

15. The summary screen now includes Range of data, Resolution, Mode 
(max probability), Pearson's correlation, Relative LZ complexity, 
Dominant period (FFT), Dominant period (MEM), Lyapunov exponent (base 
e), Entropy (approx), BDS statistic, Correlation time, Predicted next 
value (Net), and Predicted next value (NLP). 

16. The sample data sets have been reformatted, and most are now 
accurate to better than 1 part per million. 

17. Most of the data sets have been chosen from among 26 similar 
realizations to have distribution moments close to the average of the 
26 data sets so as to ensure that they are typical.  An improved random 
number generator has also been used where appropriate. 

18. New sample data sets include RANDOM.DAT, ROSSLER.DAT, PINKNOIS.DAT, 
HENOISE.DAT, BROWNIAN.DAT, CANTOR.DAT, FEIGEN.DAT, LOZIMAP.DAT, 
TENTMAP.DAT, MACKEY.DAT, PLASMA.DAT, SHIFTMAP.DAT, THREESIN.DAT, 
DEVIL.DAT, EXPDEV.DAT, INVRAND.DAT, EEG.DAT, EKG.DAT, SINOISE.DAT, 
SPEECH.DAT, LOGIT.DAT, HUMANDNA.DAT, ASCIITXT.DAT, WSTRASS.DAT, 
SPROTTA.DAT, SPROTTB.DAT, HUMANRND.DAT, IKEDA.DAT, ROSSLERH.DAT, 
VANDPOL.DAT, LORENZXZ.DAT, HENROUND.DAT, LASER.DAT, STAR.DAT,
ELNINO.DAT, and LCGX.DAT.

19. Output data saved to a file now has extraneous digits of precision 
removed.

20. A program has been added to produce surrogate data sets either by 
shuffling the data or by shuffling the phases of the Fourier-
transformed data.

21. The program can now handle 1000 data files instead of only 256. 

22. The correlation dimension calculation is now significantly faster, 
especially on machines without a math coprocessor.

23. The correlation function calculation now allows a maximum tau of up 
to 8192 instead of 128, and it displays and saves the correlation time 
even if it occurs at a tau greater than the maximum tau. 

24. The power spectrum calculation now allows larger values of N (up to 
128) for small data sets.

25. The probability distribution program now includes views showing the 
cumulative distribution, the relative LZ complexity, and the clumpiness 
of a square iterated function system derived from the data, and it 
allows up to 512 data bins. 

26. A bug has been corrected that prevented the phase space plot from 
being displayed with data records in which all the values are negative. 

27. The return maps program now allows the user to specify the plane 
for which the return map is calculated.

28. The return maps program now includes a view of the interspike 
intervals (the time interval between successive occurrences of a given 
level).

29. The function keys F1 through F5 can now be accessed from anywhere 
in the program.

30. The graph of data program now allows plotting each data point 
versus its n'th predecessor and it 2n'th predecessor when n can be 
controlled by the user. 

31. The capacity dimension and correlation dimension programs now allow 
the user to change the delay between data points. 

32. The graph of data, correlation matrix, phase-space plot, and 
Poincare movie programs now contain 3-D stereoscopic views.

33. Graphics screens can now be printed using the ^ command in the 
command sequence which has the same effect as pressing the <Print 
Screen> key.

34. A problem with command delays sometimes being ignored has been 
corrected.

35. Views of the detrended data are now included in the polynomial fit 
and in the dominant frequencies programs. 

36. The palette can now be rotated by pressing the <+> and <-> keys, 
allowing 64 combinations of colors. 

37. Pearson's ellipse (a measure of the linear correlation of adjacent 
data points) is now plotted in view 2 of the graph of data program (if 
it has been calculated). 

38. A problem with the horizontal scale in view 2 of the Capacity 
Dimension calculation has been corrected.

39. Data from files are loaded much faster, especially from floppy 
disks. 

40. Typing "CDA /?" or "CDA /HELP" from DOS now brings up the name of 
the program and command-line syntax. 

41. A URL for the author's World Wide Web page has been included in 
HELP.TXT 

42. Some changes have been made to improve compatibility with Windows 
95 when the program is run as a DOS window. 

43. The file handling system has been revamped to allow the user to 
select a data file from a list on the screen with the cursor keys or 
mouse. 

44. An indication of the dominant frequency has been added to the power 
spectrum and dominant frequencies programs. 

45. A view of the cumulative periodogram has been added to the power 
spectrum program. 

46. The Lyapunov exponent calculates much faster and continues to a 
conclusion in auto mode.


                Changes from Version 2.0 to Version 2.1
                        Created January 1, 1998

1. A problem with the sound hanging on and the program crashing with 
certain brands of computers has been corrected.

2. The command line help function now gives improved instructions.

3. The colors can now be cycled forward or backward on computers with
keyboards without keypads.

4. The logo screen no longer appears while the program is loading on
fast machines with coprocessors.

5. An icon file (CDA.ICO) has been provided for the convenience of
Windows users.

6. Missing ancillary .TXT files do not delay loading or operation of 
the program and allow for processing of larger data sets.

7. The Polynomial Fit and Correlation Matrix programs now run 
considerably faster.

8. The left mouse button now emulates the space bar in a script that is 
waiting for a keyboard command to advance to the next screen. 

9. A correlation dimension is quoted on the summary page only if the 
number of data points correlated satisfies the Tsonis criterion of N > 
10^(2+.4D) to prevent spurious results. 

10. The directory text screens colors have been changed to white on 
blue. 

11. A 45-degree line has been added to view 3 of the capacity dimension 
and correlation dimension programs. 

12. The user can now type in a data file name as well as select one 
with a mouse or arrow keys. 

13. A minor problem with the scripting of the tutorial was corrected. 

14. A CDA.HTM file has been added to simplify launching the program 
from a Web browser and to provide links to Web resources.

15. Error messages now appear in a dialog box with an OK button.

16. The program has been recompiled with PowerBASIC 3.5.

17. A problem with the mouse buttons not resetting when the program is 
launched has been corrected.


                Changes from Version 2.1 to Version 2.2
                        Created May 24, 2012

1. A problem with the polynomial fit program sticking in a loop when
running under DOSBox was fixed.

2. A problem with the Lyapunov exponent program hanging at 0% when
running under DOSBox was fixed.
