=======================================================================
                          CHAOS DATA ANALYZER
                      The Professional Version 2.2
                        (c) 2012 by J.C. Sprott
              University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI 53706
                     sprott@juno.physics.wisc.edu
                    http://sprott.physics.wisc.edu/
=======================================================================

                             Introduction

     CHAOS DATA ANALYZER is a collection of programs that analyze a 
one-dimensional array of data which is taken to be some function X(t) 
evaluated at equal increments of the variable t.  The increments are 
taken as unity.  The array is supplied by the user in the form of an 
ASCII file of numbers with each number separated from the one before 
it by a space, comma, carriage return, or line feed.  Data can be from 
an experimental measurement or from some numerical calculation such as 
the companion CHAOS DEMONSTRATIONS package.  Files containing sample 
data are included.  The programs are intended to facilitate extraction 
of hidden determinism in what may look like random noise. 

     To start the program, place the diskette in drive A, and from the 
A> prompt, type CDA and then press <Enter>.  The program will load the 
file CHAOS.DAT which contains data from a numerical solution of the 
Lorenz equations.  To analyze a different datafile, type CDA followed 
by the name of the file to be analyzed and then press <Enter>.  You may 
also run the program from a hard disk by first copying all the files on 
the diskette to some appropriate subdirectory on the hard disk.  Change 
to that subdirectory and proceed as above. 


                     Customization and Automation

     The CDA command will accept on the command line the name of a data 
file to be analyzed followed by a comma and then a string of characters 
representing a sequence of keystrokes to be executed automatically when 
execution begins.  This string may contain single-digit numbers that 
will cause a delay for a corresponding number of seconds.  For example, 
typing CDA ,A9XB9XC9X at the DOS prompt will read the default file 
CHAOS.DAT and will then cycle through the first three programs, 
spending nine seconds on each.  You can produce a longer delay by using 
multiple digits (e.g., 99 gives an eighteen-second delay).  You can 
display text embedded in quotes.  Try a command such as CDA ,"Let's 
look at the Lorenz attractor..."3M.
     
     You can execute DOS commands or user-supplied .BAT, .EXE, or .COM 
files by embedding them in the command string enclosed within brackets 
[], but external commands require that COMMAND.COM be in the current 
path.  
     
     You can also save the output of a calculation to a disk file by 
putting a filename in braces on the command line.  For example, CDA 
,D{POLYFIT.DAT} will save the polynomial fit to the data in CHAOS.DAT 
in the file POLYFIT.DAT.  To save the output of the last calculation 
performed before exiting to DOS, place the filename in braces as the 
first (or only) item in the command string, such as CDA ,{RECENT.DAT}.  
The next time you start CDA, you can type CDA RECENT at the DOS prompt 
to analyze the file just created.  
     
     Several other special commands are supported as follows: 

          - waits until the space bar is pressed
          ; dissolves the screen display
          ? initiates the help feature <F1>
          $ displays the disk directory <F2>
          @ displays the program logo <F3>
          ! displays a summary of the data <F4>
          % executes commands in AUTO.TXT <F5>
          ^ prints the screen <Print Screen>
          . returns to DOS <Esc>

     You can cycle backward through the parameters, views, graphics 
modes, and colors by holding down the <Shift> key or by using lower-
case letters in the automatic command sequence.  The <+> and <-> keys 
change the color palette if your hardware supports it.  
     
     Placing an R at the end of the command string causes the commands 
to repeat indefinitely.  The special command CDA ,R (equivalent to CDA 
,%R) activates the automatic continuous analysis mode.  You can 
interrupt automatic operation by pressing any key or mouse button, but 
the cycle will resume after 45 seconds of keyboard and mouse 
inactivity.  You can single-step through the automatic sequence using 
<Tab>.  To exit the automatic continuous mode, press <Ctrl><Home> and 
then release them and quickly press <Esc>.  The diskette may be removed 
from the drive after the program has begun cycling.  The commands 
performed in the automatic mode are recorded in a file called AUTO.TXT, 
which you can modify with any word processor that will read and write 
ASCII files.  
     
     You can cause the program to take its commands from a different 
file that you provide by starting CHAOS DATA ANALYZER with a command 
such as CDA ,(MYSCRIPT.TXT). 

     Current information on the latest version of the program and other 
developments are available on the World Wide Web at
http://sprott.physics.wisc.edu/cda.htm.
